Spanish masters of light shadow and
expression to the high Renaissance and
the greatest artists of Spain's Golden
Age they have all been here as SM use
Meadows Museum deepens its relationship
with the great institutions and
collections of Spanish art
Spanish art has always been central to
the methods of museum while exploring
for oil in Spain founder Algar meadows
crossed the street from his hotel in
madrid and spent hours at a time in the
galleries of the greatest of all Spanish
museums the problem
he fell in love with these masterpieces
it said he would create a small model
for Texas with his gift to SMU he did he
really wanted to do something that
endured in 2015 the meadows museum will
celebrate 50 years today an institution
with world impact 2015 is also the same
here it's home SMU celebrates a century
of classes with support from the Dallas
community in Spain the meadows and the
Prado agreed to an unprecedented
three-year international partnership
Ramos Alamitos como como parte de la
familia de institutio neighs cake Whedon
dallart espanol en el mundo estudian el
arte Spaniard el mundo y localizado en
una ciudad stylist and rather than I
think icon Calabro historia de spaniel
my counterpart in Madrid always reminds
me that it's something almost that I had
to happen since Prado translates to
English matters so it's a clear
coincidence that it's just something
that needed to take place
Bravo would loan The Meadows three major
paintings starting with the El Greco
altarpiece Pentecost for the second
exhibition Giuseppe Roberto's Mary
Magdalene was accompanied by other works
of the artist the third exhibition
celebrated the artists whose works
dominate the center of the Prado and the
heart of Spain diego velázquez the
centerpiece was this full-length
portrait of a young Philip the fourth
traveling from the central gallery of
the prow to the meadows The Meadows
collection includes a small portrait of
Philip that looks strikingly similar
research in the exhibition shows
evidence that the meadows own portrait
was the model for the province great
painting but the Velasquez exhibition
was not the end of the meadows Prado
collaboration the two museums
extended their agreement for another two
years and worked together on a joint
exhibition opening first in Madrid then
in Dallas on the Spanish Impressionists
Martin Rico
preparation for the exhibition included
careful restoration work what's on
Rico's paintings in the Prados
conservation lab what's in it for the
product is exactly the same thing that's
in it for the meadows the opportunity to
work on two major exhibitions that we'll
see as I said in both places so the same
exhibition that you'll see in Dallas
will also have here in in Madrid the
partnership with the Prado is also
extending scholarship the museums are
exchanging fellows who are engaged in
new research both in Dallas and Madrid
I'm here to study antonio Primo's not
book it is exciting to have an object in
your hands when you have been working on
it for such a long time initially I was
supposed just to do research on the
permanent collection and that was it but
little by little been given many many
opportunities and then came to the Prado
twice The Meadows museum is an
international museum now it's at the
level of museums in Europe and many
other museums in the United States so
definitely I think this partnership has
opened the door for many things in the
future meant collaborations with other
museums because I'm sure they'll notice
how successful it has been with the
meadows and the Prado which is something
that continues and The Meadows has
signed other partnerships that will lead
to exciting new exhibitions with Spain's
Mapfre Foundation the meadows has
organized a groundbreaking exhibition on
Joaquin Soria a painter of beaches and
high society
sorry yes uno de los grandes pinterest
$1 tiempo es un fin de español con el
reconocimiento enorme en Espana
Internacional the exhibition will open
in Dallas then travel to San Diego in
Madrid the first comprehensive show of
Sirois is art in America in over a
century one of the paintings in this
exhibition is being restored by the
prowess top conservator in 19th century
painting and she's also restoring
another painting by Nico salewa but I'm
aware of a part of Algar Meadows
original gift that created the meadows
Museum this painting has not been shown
publicly at the meadows
collaborations will continue the meadows
and the prowl are working together on an
exhibition of important Spanish drawings
from the kunst hala of Homburg Germany
it will open at the meadows then travel
to the Prado it's a it's is this kind of
collaboration that has only been
organically growing through the years in
a very positive way you know I think as
we start to take ourselves to the next
level we not only need to act world
class we need to be connected to the
world it's fabulous how the meadows has
created a relationship with a whole
country through arts
in 2006 the meadows foundation made a
historic gift to essa Butte
that included direct support for
acquisitions as well as a challenge
grant in honor of the 50th anniversary
of the museum the meadows foundation and
mrs. Eugene McDermott made it possible
to purchase a portrait by Francisco Goya
of his grandson it is a rare late work
by one of the greatest painters of all
time the artist inscribed on the back
Koya to his grandson in 1827 in his 81st
year the painting joins five others by
Goya in the meadows collection
the acquisition also illustrates the
depth and growth of the meadows
collection which is more than double
since the museum's founder died in 1978
approaching its 50th year the small
Prado in Texas is making a big
difference in the field of Spanish art a
player in the world which is bringing
the world and its treasures to Dallas